Immunosuppressive Drugs, Fibric Acid Derivatives, Niacin (Nicotinic Acid, Erythromycin, Azole Antifungals: Skeletal Muscle. ANTACID (Magnesium-Aluminum Hydroxide): Cerivastatin plasma concentrations were not affected by co-administration of antacid. CIMETlDINE: Cerivastatin plasma concentrations were not affected by co-administration of cimetidine. CHOLESTYRAMINE: The influence of the bile-acidsequestering agent cholestyramine on the pharmacokinetits of cerivastatin sodium was evaluated in 12 healthy males in 2 separate randomized crossover studies. In the first study, concomitant administration of 0.2 mg cerivastatin sodium and 12 g cholestyramine resulted in decreases of more than 22% for AUC and 40% for Cmax when compared to dosing cerivastatin sodium alone. However, in the second study, administration of 12 g cholestyramine 1 hour before the evening meal and 0.3 mg cerivastatin sodium approximately 4 hours after the same evening meal resulted in a decrease in the cerivastatin AUC of less than 8%, and a decrease in Cmax of about 30% when compared to dosing cerivastatin sodium alone. Therefore, it would be expected that a dosing schedule of cerivastatin sodium given at bedtime and cholestyramine given before the evening meal would not result in a significant decrease in the clinical effect of cerivastatin sodium. DIGOXIN: Plasma digoxin levels and digoxin clearance at steady-state were not affected by co-administration of 0.2 mg cerivastatin sodium. Cerivastatin plasma concentrations were also not affected by co-administration of digoxin. WARFARIN: Co- administration of warfarin and cerivastatin to healthy volunteers did not result in any changes in prothrombin time or clotting factor VII when compared to co-administration of warfarin and placebo. The AUC and Cmax of both the (R) and (S) isomers of warfarin were unaffected by concurrent dosing of 0.3 mg cerivastatin sodium. Co-administration of warfarin and cerivastatin did not alter the pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin sodium. ERYTHROMYCIN: In hypercholesterolemic patients, steady-state cerivastatin AUC and Cmax increased approximately 50% and 24% respectively after 10 days with co-administration of erythromycin, a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4. OTHER CONCOMITANT THERAPY: Although specific interaction studies were not performed, in clinical studies, cerivastatin sodium was used concomitantly with angiotensin- converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, betablockers, calcium-channel blockers, diuretics, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions.