Interactions for vitamin D analogues (Vitamin D2, Vitamin D3, Calcitriol, and Calcidiol): Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine has been reported to reduce intestinal absorption of fat soluble vitamins; as such it may impair intestinal absorption of any of vitamin D. Phenytoin/Phenobarbital: The coadministration of phenytoin or phenobarbital will not affect plasma concentrations of vitamin D, but may reduce endogenous plasma levels of calcitriol/ergocalcitriol by accelerating metabolism. Since blood level of calcitriol/ergocalcitriol will be reduced, higher doses of Rocaltrol may be necessary if these drugs are administered simultaneously. Thiazides: Thiazides are known to induce hypercalcemia by the reduction of calcium excretion in urine. Some reports have shown that the concomitant administration of thiazides with vitamin D causes hypercalcemia. Therefore, precaution should be taken when coadministration is necessary. Digitalis: Vitamin D dosage must be determined with care in patients undergoing treatment with digitalis, as hypercalcemia in such patients may precipitate cardiac arrhythmias. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole may inhibit both synthetic and catabolic enzymes of vitamin D. Reductions in serum endogenous vitamin D concentrations have been observed following the administration of 300 mg/day to 1200 mg/day ketoconazole for a week to healthy men. However, in vivo drug interaction studies of ketoconazole with vitamin D have not been investigated. Corticosteroids: A relationship of functional antagonism exists between vitamin D analogues, which promote calcium absorption, and corticosteroids, which inhibit calcium absorption. Phosphate-Binding Agents: Since vitamin D also has an effect on phosphate transport in the intestine, kidneys and bones, the dosage of phosphate-binding agents must be adjusted in accordance with the serum phosphate concentration. Vitamin D: The coadministration of any of the vitamin D analogues should be avoided as this could create possible additive effects and hypercalcemia. Calcium Supplements: Uncontrolled intake of additional calcium-containing preparations should be avoided. Magnesium: Magnesium-containing preparations (eg, antacids) may cause hypermagnesemia and should therefore not be taken during therapy with vitamin D by patients on chronic renal dialysis.