Cisapride is metabolized mainly via the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme. In some cases where serious ventricular arrhythmias, QT prolongation, and torsades de pointes have occurred when cisapride was taken in conjunction with one of the cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors, elevated blood cisapride levels were noted at the time of the QT prolongation. Antibiotics: In vitro and/or in vivo data show that clarithromycin, erythromycin, and troleandomycin markedly inhibit the metabolism of cisapride, which can result in an increase in plasma cisapride levels and prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG. Anticholinergics: Concurrent administration of certain anticholinergic compounds, such as belladonna alkaloids and dicyclomine, would be expected to compromise the beneficial effects of cisapride. Anticoagulants (Oral): In patients receiving oral anticoagulants, the coagulation times were increased in some cases. It is advisable to check coagulation time within the first few days after the start and discontinuation of cisapride therapy, with an appropriate adjustment of the anticoagulant dose, if necessary. Antidepressants: In vitro data indicate that nefazodone inhibits the metabolism of cisapride, which can result in an increase in plasma cisapride levels and prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG. Antifungals: In vitro and/or in vivo data indicate that fluconazole, itraconazole, and oral ketoconazole markedly inhibit the metabolism of cisapride, which can result in an increase in plasma cisapride levels and prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG. Human pharmacokinetic data indicate that oral ketoconazole markedly inhibits the metabolism of cisapride, resulting in a mean eight-fold increase in AUC of cisapride. A study in 14 normal male and female volunteers suggests that coadministration of cisapride and ketoconazole can result in prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG. H2 Receptor Antagonists: Cimetidine coadministration leads to an increased peak plasma concentration and AUC of cisapride, there is no effect on cisapride absorption when it is coadministered with ranitidine. The gastrointestinal absorption of cimetidine and ranitidine is accelerated when they are coadministered with cisapride. Protease Inhibitors: In vitro data indicate that indinavir and ritonavir markedly inhibit the metabolism of cisapride which can result in an increase in plasma cisapride levels and prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG. Other: Coadministration of grapefruit juice with cisapride increases the bioavailability of cisapride and concomitant use should be avoided. Cisapride should not be used concomitantly with other drugs known to prolong the QT interval: certain antiarrhythmics, including those of Class IA (such as quinidine and procainamide) and Class III (such as sotalol); tricyclic antidepressants (such as amitriptyline); certain tetracyclic antidepressants (such as maprotiline); certain antipsychotic medications (such as sertindole); astemizole, bepridil, sparfloxacin, and terodiline. The preceding lists of drugs are not comprehensive. The acceleration of gastric emptying by cisapride could affect the rate of absorption of other drugs. Patients receiving narrow therapeutic ratio drugs or other drugs that require careful titration should be followed closely; if plasma levels are being monitored, they should be reassessed.