Drugs that may increase dasatinib plasma concentrations CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Dasatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of SPRYCEL and drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 (eg, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, ritonavir, atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) may increase exposure to dasatinib and should be avoided. In patients receiving treatment with SPRYCEL, close monitoring for toxicity and a SPRYCEL dose reduction should be considered if systemic administration of a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor cannot be avoided. Drugs that may decrease dasatinib plasma concentrations CYP3A4 Inducers: Drugs that induce CYP3A4 activity may decrease dasatinib plasma concentrations. In patients in whom CYP3A4 inducers (eg, dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital) are indicated, alternative agents with less enzyme induction potential should be used. If SPRYCEL must be administered with a CYP3A4 inducer, a dose increase in SPRYCEL should be considered. St. Johns wort (Hypericum perforatum) may decrease SPRYCEL plasma concentrations unpredictably. Patients receiving SPRYCEL should not take St. Johns wort. Antacids: Nonclinical data demonstrate that the solubility of dasatinib is pH dependent. Simultaneous administration of SPRYCEL with antacids should be avoided. If antacid therapy is needed, the antacid dose should be administered at least 2 hours prior to or 2 hours after the dose of SPRYCEL. H2 Blockers/Proton Pump Inhibitors: Long-term suppression of gastric acid secretion by H2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors (eg, famotidine and omeprazole) is likely to reduce dasatinib exposure. The concomitant use of H2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors with SPRYCEL is not recommended. The use of antacids should be considered in place of H2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors in patients receiving SPRYCEL therapy. Drugs that may have their plasma concentration altered by dasatinib CYP3A4 Substrates: Dasatinib is a time-dependent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Therefore, CYP3A4 substrates known to have a narrow therapeutic index such as alfentanil, astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, cyclosporine, fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, tacrolimus, or ergot alkaloids (ergotamine, dihydroergotamine) should be administered with caution in patients receiving SPRYCEL. Hepatic Impairment There are currently no clinical studies with SPRYCEL in patients with impaired liver function (clinical studies have excluded patients with ALT and/or AST  2.5 times the upper limit of the normal range and/or total bilirubin  2 times the upper limit of the normal range). Metabolism of dasatinib is mainly hepatic. Caution is recommended in patients with hepatic impairment. Renal Impairment There are currently no clinical studies with SPRYCEL in patients with impaired renal function (clinical studies have excluded patients with serum creatinine concentration  1.5 times the upper limit of the normal range). Dasatinib and its metabolites are minimally excreted via the kidney. Since the renal excretion of unchanged dasatinib and its metabolites is  4%, a decrease in total body clearance is not expected in patients with renal insufficiency.