Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A4. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A4 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with SUSTIVA (efavirenz). In vitro studies have demonstrated that efavirenz inhibits 2C9, 2C19, and 3A4 isozymes in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Coadministration of efavirenz with drugs primarily metabolized by these isozymes may result in altered plasma concentrations of the coadministered drug. Therefore, appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary for these drugs. Drugs which induce CYP3A4 activity (eg, phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations. Drug interactions with SUSTIVA are summarized in Table 5. Table 5a: Drugs That Should Not Be Coadministered With SUSTIVA Drug Class Drugs Within Class Not To Be Coadministered With SUSTIVA Antihistamines: Benzodiazepines GI Motility Agents Anti-Migraine Antifungal astemizole midazolam, triazolam cisapride ergot derivatives voriconazole Established Drug Interactions Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment Atazanavir atazanavir When coadministered with SUSTIVA in treatment-naive patients, the recommended dose of atazanavir is 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and SUSTIVA 600 mg (all once daily). Dosing recommendations for SUSTIVA and atazanavir in treatment-experienced patients have not been established. Established Drug Interactions (continued) Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment Clarithromycin clarithromycin concentration Plasma concentrations decreased by SUSTIVA; clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving SUSTIVA and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of SUSTIVA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with SUSTIVA. 14-OH metabolite concentration Indinavir indinavir concentration The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with SUSTIVA, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to SUSTIVA. When indinavir at an increased dose (1000 mg every 8 hours) was given with SUSTIVA (600 mg once daily), the indinavir AUC and Cmin were decreased on average by 33-46% and 39-57%, respectively, compared to when indinavir (800 mg every 8 hours) was given alone. Lopinavir/ritonavir lopinavir concentration A dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir to 533/133 mg (4 capsules or 6.5 mL) twice daily taken with food is recommended when used in combination with SUSTIVA. Methadone methadone concentration Coadministration in HIV-infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Ethinyl estradiol ethinyl estradiol concentration Plasma concentrations increased by SUSTIVA (efavirenz); clinical significance unknown. Because the potential interaction of efavirenz with oral contraceptives has not been fully characterized, a reliable method of barrier contraception should be used in addition to oral contraceptives. Rifabutin rifabutin concentration Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. Rifampin efavirenz concentration Clinical significance of reduced efavirenz concentrations unknown. Ritonavir ritonavir concentration Combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (eg, dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when SUSTIVA is used in combination with ritonavir. efavirenz concentration Saquinavir saquinavir concentration Should not be used as sole protease inhibitor in combination with SUSTIVA. Sertraline sertraline concentration Increases in sertraline dose should be guided by clinical response. Other Potentially Clinically Significant Drug or Herbal Product Interactions With SUSTIVAb Anticoagulants: Warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by SUSTIVA. Anticonvulsants: Phenytoin Phenobarbital Carbamazepine Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antifungals: Itraconazole Ketoconazole Drug interaction studies with SUSTIVA and these imidazole and triazole antifungals have not been conducted. SUSTIVA has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of itraconazole and ketoconazole. Anti-HIV protease inhibitors: Saquinavir/ritonavir combination No pharmacokinetic data are available. Amprenavir SUSTIVAhas the potential to decrease serum concentrations of amprenavir. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors No studies have been performed with other NNRTIs. St. John s wort (Hypericum perforatum) Expected to substantially decrease plasma levels of efavirenz;has not been studied in combination with SUSTIVA. a See Tables 1 and 2. b This table is not all-inclusive. Other Drugs: Based on the results of drug interaction studies, no dosage adjustment is recommended when SUSTIVA (efavirenz) is given with the following: aluminum/magnesium hydroxide antacids, azithromycin, cetirizine, famotidine, fluconazole, lamivudine, lorazepam, nelfinavir, paroxetine, and zidovudine. Specific drug interaction studies have not been performed with SUSTIVA and NRTIs other than lamivudine and zidovudine. Clinically significant interactions would not be expected since the NRTIs are metabolized via a different route than efavirenz and would be unlikely to compete for the same metabolic enzymes and elimination pathways.