Hypotension: Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with enalapril or enalaprilat. The possibility of hypotensive effects with enalapril or enalaprilat can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with enalapril or enalaprilat. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour.. Agents Causing Renin Release: The antihypertensive effect of enalapril and enalapril IV is augmented by antihypertensive agents that cause renin release (e.g., diuretics). Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents: In some patients with compromised renal function who are being treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the co-administration of enalapril may result in a further deterioration of renal function. These effects are usually reversible. In a clinical pharmacology study, indomethacin or sulindac was administered to hypertensive patients receiving VASOTEC. In this study there was no evidence of a blunting of the antihypertensive action of VASOTEC. However, reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Other Cardiovascular Agents: Enalapril and enalapril IV have been used concomitantly with beta adrenergic-blocking agents, methyldopa, nitrates, calcium-blocking agents, hydralazine, prazosin and digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. Enalapril IV has been used concomitantly with digitalis without evidence of clinically significant adverse reactions. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Enalapril and enalapril IV attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, or amiloride), potassium supplements, or potassium-containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. Therefore, if concomitant use of these agents is indicated because of demonstrated hypokalemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium. Potassium sparing agents should generally not be used in patients with heart failure receiving enalapril. Lithium: Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if enalapril is administered concomitantly with lithium.