Antacids: Administration of flurbiprofen to volunteers under fasting conditions, or with antacid suspension yielded similar serum flurbiprofen time profiles in young subjects (n=12). In geriatric subjects (n=7) there was a reduction in the rate but not the extent of flurbiprofen absorption. Anticoagulants: Flurbiprofen like other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, has been shown to affect bleeding parameters in patients receiving anti-coagulants, and serious clinical bleeding has been reported. The physician should be cautious when administering flurbiprofen to patients taking anticoagulants. Aspirin: Concurrent administration of aspirin and flurbiprofen resulted in 50% lower serum flurbiprofen concentrations. This effect of aspirin (which also lowers serum concentrations of other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs given with it) has been demonstrated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (n= 15) as well as normal volunteers (n= 16). Concurrent use of flurbiprofen and aspirin is therefore not recommended. Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents: The effect of flurbiprofen on blood pressure response to propranolol and atenolol was evaluated in men with mild uncomplicated hypertension (n = 10). Flurbiprofen pretreatment attenuated the hypotensive effect of a single dose of propranolol but not atenolol. Flurbiprofen did not appear to affect the beta-blocker-mediated reduction in heart rate. Flurbiprofen did not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of either drug, and the mechanism under lying the interference with propranolols hypotensive effect is unknown. Patients taking both flurbiprofen and a beta-blocker should be monitored to ensure that a satisfactory hypotensive effect is achieved. Cimetidine, Ranitidine: In normal volunteers (n=9), pretreatment with cimetidine or ranitidine did not affect flurbiprofen pharmacokinetics except that a small (13 %) but statistically significant increase in the area under the serum concentration curve of flurbiprofen resulted with cimetidine. Digoxin: Studies of concomitant administration of flurbiprofen and digoxin to healthy men (n= 14) did not show a change in the steady state serum levels of either drug. Diuretics: Studies in normal volunteers have shown that flurbiprofen like other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, can interfere with the effects of furosemide. Although results have varied from study to study, effects have been shown on furosemide-stimulated diuresis, natriuresis, and kaliuresis. Other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis have been shown to interfere with thiazide diuretics in some studies and with potassium-sparing diuretics. Patients receiving flurbiprofen and furosemide or other diuretics should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents: In one study, flurbiprofen was given to adult diabetics who were already receiving glyburide (n=4), metformin (n=2) chlorpropamide with phenformin (n= 3) or glyburide with phenformin (n=6). Although there was a slight reduction in blood sugar concentrations during concomitant administration of flurbiprofen and hypoglycemic agents, there were no signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia.