Anticoagulants, oral (Effects may be decreased when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics; dosage adjustments may be necessary.) Antigout medications (Thiazide diuretics may raise the level of blood uric acid; dosage adjustment of antigout medications may be necessary to control hyperuricemia and gout.) Antihypertensive medications, other, especially diazoxide, or preanesthetic and anesthetic agents used in surgery or skeletal-muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing, used in surgery (Effects may be potentiated when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics; dosage adjustments may be necessary.) Amphotericin B or Corticosteroids or Corticotropin (ACTH) (Concurrent use with thiazide diuretics may intensify electrolyte imbalance, particularly hypokalemia.) Cardiac glycosides (Concurrent use with thiazide diuretics may enhance the possibility of digitalis toxicity associated with hypokalemia.) Colestipol (May inhibit gastrointestinal absorption of the thiazide diuretics; administration 1 hour before or 4 hours after colestipol is recommended.) Hypoglycemics (Thiazide diuretics may raise blood glucose levels; for adult-onset diabetics, dosage adjustment of hypoglycemic medications may be necessary during and after thiazide diuretic therapy; insulin requirements may be increased, decreased, or unchanged.) Lithium salts (Concurrent use with thiazide diuretics is not recommended, as they may provoke lithium toxicity because of reduced renal clearance.) Methenamine (Effectiveness may be decreased when used concurrently with thiazide diuretics because of alkalinization of the urine.) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (In some patients, the steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium sparing, and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when hydroflumethiazide and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained.) Norepinephrine (Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use.) Tubocurarine (Thiazide drugs may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine.) DIAGNOSTIC INTERFERENCE With expected physiologic effects: Blood and urine glucose levels (usually only in patients with a predisposition for glucose intolerance) and Serum bilirubin levels (by displacement from albumin binding) and Serum calcium levels (thiazide diuretics should be discontinued before parathyroid-function tests are carried out) and Serum uric acid levels (may be increased) Serum magnesium, potassium, and sodium levels (may be decreased; serum magnesium levels may increase in uremic patients) Serum protein-bound iodine (PBI) levels (may be decreased) Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function.