Calcium Supplements/Antacids Products containing calcium and other multivalent cations (such as aluminum, magnesium, iron) are likely to interfere with absorption of Ibandronate. Ibandronate should be taken at least 60 minutes before any oral medications containing multivalent cations (including antacids, supplements or vitamins). H2 Blockers and Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Of over 3500 patients enrolled in the Ibandronate osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies, 15% used anti-peptic agents (primarily H2 blockers and PPIs). Among these patients, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse experiences in the patients treated with Ibandronate was similar to that in placebo-treated patients. Similarly, of over 1600 patients enrolled in a study comparing once-monthly with daily dosing regimens of ibandronate, 14% of patients used anti-peptic agents. Among these patients, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse experiences in the patients treated with Ibandronate 150 mg once monthly was similar to that in patients treated with Ibandronate 2.5 mg once daily. Aspirin/Nonsteroidal Antiinflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) In the large, placebo-controlled osteoporosis Treatment Study, aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were taken by 62% of the 2946 patients. Among aspirin or NSAID users, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse events in patients treated with ibandronate 2.5 mg daily (28.9%) was similar to that in placebo-treated patients (30.7%). Similarly, in the 1-year monthly comparison study, aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were taken by 39% of the 1602 patients. The incidence of upper gastrointestinal events in patients concomitantly taking aspirin or NSAIDs was similar in patients taking ibandronate 2.5 mg daily (21.7%) and 150 mg once monthly (22.0%). However, since aspirin, NSAIDs, and bisphosphonates are all associated with gastrointestinal irritation, caution should be exercised in the concomitant use of aspirin or NSAIDs with Ibandronate. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with ibandronate have not been performed.