General No clinical drug interaction studies were performed. No evaluation of EXTRANEALs effects on the cytochrome P450 system was conducted. As with other dialysis solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be reduced by dialysis. Dosage adjustment of concomitant medications may be necessary. In patients using cardiac glycosides (digoxin and others), plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored. Insulin: A clinical study in 6 insulin-dependent diabetic patients demonstrated no effect of EXTRANEAL on insulin absorption from the peritoneal cavity or on insulins ability to control blood glucose when insulin was administered intraperitoneally with EXTRANEAL. However, appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed when initiating EXTRANEAL in diabetic patients and insulin dosage should be adjusted if needed. Heparin: No human drug interaction studies with heparin were conducted. In vitro studies demonstrated no evidence of incompatibility of heparin with EXTRANEAL. Antibiotics: No human drug interaction studies with antibiotics were conducted. In vitro studies evaluating the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of vancomycin, cefazolin, ampicillin, ampicillin/flucoxacillin, ceftazidime, gentamicin, and amphotericin demonstrated no evidence of incompatibility of these antibiotics with EXTRANEAL. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Blood Glucose Blood glucose measurement must be done with a glucose-specific method to prevent maltose interference with test results. Since falsely elevated glucose levels have been observed with blood glucose monitoring devices and test strips that use glucose dehydrogenase pyrroloquinolinequinone (GDH PQQ)-based methods, GDH PQQ-based methods should not be used to measure glucose levels in patients administered EXTRANEAL.. Serum Amylase An apparent decrease in serum amylase activity has been observed in patients administered EXTRANEAL. Preliminary investigations indicate that icodextrin and its metabolites interfere with enzymatic-based amylase assays, resulting in inaccurately low values. This should be taken into account when evaluating serum amylase levels for diagnosis or monitoring of pancreatitis in patients using EXTRANEAL.