Indinavir is an inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 isoform CYP3A4. Coadministration of CRIXIVAN and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug, which could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse effects. Indinavir is metabolized by CYP3A4. Drugs that induce CYP3A4 activity would be expected to increase the clearance of indinavir, resulting in lowered plasma concentrations of indinavir. Coadministration of CRIXIVAN and other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may decrease the clearance of indinavir and may result in increased plasma concentrations of indinavir. Table 8 Drugs That Should Not Be Coadministered with CRIXIVAN Drug Class: Drug Name Clinical Comment Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias. Ergot derivatives: dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, ergotamine, methylergonovine CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as acute ergot toxicity characterized by peripheral vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues. Sedative/hypnotics: midazolam, triazolam CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as prolonged or increased sedation or respiratory depression. GI motility agents: cisapride CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias. Neuroleptic: pimozide CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias. Herbal products: St. John s wort (Hypericum perforatum) May lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to CRIXIVAN or to the class of protease inhibitors. Antimycobacterial: rifampin May lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to CRIXIVAN or to the class of protease inhibitors or other coadministered antiretroviral agents. HMG-CoA Reductase inhibitors: lovastatin, simvastatin Potential for serious reactions such as risk of myopathy including rhabdomyolysis. Protease inhibitor: atazanavir Both CRIXIVAN and atazanavir are associated with indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinemia. Combinations of these drugs have not been studied and coadministration of CRIXIVAN and atazanavir is not recommended. Table 9 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment HIV Antiviral Agents Delavirdine indinavir concentration Dose reduction of CRIXIVAN to 600 mg every 8 hours should be considered when taking delavirdine 400 mg three times a day. Didanosine Indinavir and didanosine formulations containing buffer should be administered at least one hour apart on an empty stomach. Efavirenz indinavir concentration The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with efavirenz, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to efavirenz. Nelfinavir indinavir concentration The appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. Nevirapine indinavir concentration Indinavir concentrations may be decreased in the presence of nevirapine. The appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. Ritonavir indinavir concentration   ritonavir concentration The appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. Preliminary clinical data suggest that the incidence of nephrolithiasis is higher in patients receiving indinavir in combination with ritonavir than those receiving CRIXIVAN 800 mg q8h. Saquinavir saquinavir concentration The appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. Other Agents Antiarrhythmics: bepridil, lidocaine (systemic) and quinidine antiarrhythmic agents concentration Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for antiarrhythmics when coadministered with CRIXIVAN. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin indinavir concentration Use with caution. CRIXIVAN may not be effective due to decreased indinavir concentrations in patients taking these agents concomitantly. Calcium Channel Blockers, Dihydropyridine: e.g., felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers concentration Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring of patients is recommended. Clarithromycin clarithromycin concentration   indinavir concentration The appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitor: atorvastatin atorvastatin concentration Use lowest possible dose of atorvastatin with careful monitoring, or consider HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, such as pravastatin, fluvastatin, or rosuvastatin in combination with CRIXIVAN. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus immunosuppressant agents concentration Plasma concentrations may be increased by CRIXIVAN. Itraconazole indinavir concentration Dose reduction of CRIXIVAN to 600 mg every 8 hours is recommended when administering itraconazole concurrently. Ketoconazole indinavir concentration Dose reduction of CRIXIVAN to 600 mg every 8 hours should be considered. Rifabutin indinavir concentration   rifabutin concentration Dose reduction of rifabutin to half the standard dose and a dose increase of CRIXIVAN to 1000 mg (three 333-mg capsules) every 8 hours are recommended when rifabutin and CRIXIVAN are coadministered. Sildenafil sildenafil concentration Sildenafil dose should not exceed a maximum of 25 mg in a 48- hour period in patients receiving concomitant indinavir therapy. Tadalafil tadalafil concentration Tadalafil dose should not exceed a maximum of 10 mg in a 72- hour period in patients receiving concomitant indinavir therapy. Vardenafil vardenafil concentration Vardenafil dose should not exceed a maximum of 2.5 mg in a 24-hour period in patients receiving concomitant indinavir therapy. Note: = increase; = decrease