Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein (mean 99.2%). Warfarin, Digoxin, Salicylate, and Heparin The in vitro binding of warfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac tromethamine (99.5% control vs 99.3%) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to10 m g/mL. Ketorolac does not alter digoxin protein binding. In vitro studies indicate that, at therapeutic concentrations of salicylate (300 m g/mL), the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99.2% to 97.5%, representing a potential twofold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels. Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin, warfarin, ibuprofen, naproxen, piroxicam, acetaminophen, phenytoin andtolbutamide did not alter ketorolac tromethamine protein binding. In a study involving 12 adult volunteers, TORADOLORAL was coadministered with a single dose of 25 mg warfarin, causing no significant changes in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin. In another study, TORADOLIV/IM was given with two doses of 5000 U of heparin to 11 healthy volunteers, resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6.4 minutes (3.2 to 11.4 min) compared to a mean of 6.0 minutes (3.4 to 7.5 min) for heparin alone and 5.1 minutes (3.5 to 8.5 min) for placebo. Although these results do not indicate a significant interaction between TORADOL and warfarin or heparin, the administration of TORADOL to patients taking anticoagulants should be done extremely cautiously, and patients should be closely monitored. Furosemide: TORADOL IV/IM reduced the diuretic response to furosemide in normovolemic healthy subjects by approximately 20% (mean sodium and urinary output decreased 17%). Probenecid: Concomitant administration of TORADOL ORAL and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels (total AUC increased approximately threefold from 5.4 to 17.8 m g/h/mL) and terminal half-life increased approximately twofold from 6.6 to 15.1 hours. Therefore, concomitant use of TORADOL and probenecid is contraindicated. Lithium: Inhibition of renal lithium clearance, leading to an increase in plasma lithium concentration, has been reported with some prostaglandin synthesis-inhibiting drugs. The effect of TORADOL on plasma lithium has not been studied, but cases of increased lithium plasma levels during TORADOL therapy have been reported. Methotrexate: Concomitant administration of methotrexate and some NSAIDs has been reported to reduce the clearance of methotrexate, enhancing the toxicity of methotrexate. The effect of TORADOL on methotrexate clearance has not been studied. Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants: In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between TORADOLIV/IM and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea. The concurrent use of TORADOL with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied. ACE Inhibitors: Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors may increase the risk of renal impairment, particularly in volume-depleted patients. Antiepileptic Drugs: Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of TORADOL and antiepileptic drugs (phenytoin, carbamazepine). Psychoactive Drugs: Hallucinations have been reported when TORADOL was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs (fluoxetine, thiothixene, alprazolam). Morphine: TORADOLIV/IM has been administered concurrently with morphine in several clinical trials of postoperative pain without evidence of adverse interactions. Do not mix TORADOL and morphine in the same syringe. There is no evidence in animal or human studies that TORADOL induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs .