Aspirin: As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of Ponstel and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. ACE inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy of Ponstel with furosemide, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure, as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Antacids: In a single dose study (n=6), ingestion of an antacid containing 1.7-gram of magnesium hydroxide with 500-mg of mefenamic acid increased the Cmax and AUC of mefenamic acid by 125% and 36%, respectively.  A number of compounds are inhibitors of CYP2C9 including fluconazole, lovastatin and trimethoprim. Drug interaction studies of mefenamic acid and these compounds have not been conducted. The possibility of altered safety and efficacy should be considered when Ponstel is used concomitantly with these drugs.