Nelfinavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A (cytochrome P450 3A). Coadministration of VIRACEPT and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers) may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong both its therapeutic and adverse effects. Nelfinavir is metabolized in proof by C.P.A. Coadministration of VIRACEPT and drugs that induce CYP3A may decrease nelfinavir plasma concentrations and reduce its therapeutic effect. Coadministration of VIRACEPT and drugs that inhibit CYP3A may increase nelfinavir plasma concentrations. Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between VIRACEPT and dapsone, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, clarithromycin, erythromycin, itraconazole or fluconazole. Drugs That Should Not Be Coadministered With VIRACEPT Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, quinidine Antihistamines: astemizole, terfenadine Antimigraine: ergot derivatives Antimycobacterial agents: rifampin Benzodiazepines midazolam, triazolam GI motility agents: cisapride Drugs Which Require a Dose Reduction When Coadminstered With VIRACEPT Antimycobacterial agents: rifabutin * This table is not all inclusive ** VIRACEPT may not be effective due to decreased nelfinavir plasma concentrations in patients taking these agents concomitantly Antihistamines Terfenadine: Administration of terfenadine with VIRACEPT resulted in the appearance of unchanged terfenadine in plasma; therefore, VIRACEPT should not be administered concurrently with terfenadine because of the potential for serious and/or life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. Because a similar interaction is likely, VIRACEPT should also not be administered concurrently with astemizole. Anti-HIV Protease Inhibitors Indinavir: Coadministration of indinavir with VIRACEPT resulted in an 83% increase in nelfinavir plasma AUC and a 51% increase in indinavir plasma A.C. Currently, there are no safety and efficacy data available from the use of this combination. Ritonavir: Coadministration of ritonavir with VIRACEPT resulted in a 152% increase in nelfinavir plasma AUC and very little change in ritonavir plasma A.C. Currently, there are no safety and efficacy data available from the use of this combination. Saquinavir: Coadministration of saquinavir (using an experimental soft-gelatin capsule formulation of saquinavir 1200mg) with VIRACEPT resulted in an 18% increase in nelfinavir plasma AUC and a 4-fold increase in saquinavir plasma A.C. If used in combination with saquinavir hard gelatin capsules at the recommended dose of 600 mg tid, no dose adjustments are needed. Currently, there are no safety and efficacy data available from the use of this combination. Antifungal Agents Ketoconazole: Coadministration of ketoconazole with VIRACEPT resulted in a 35% increase in nelfinavir plasma A.C. This change was not considered clinically significant and no dose adjustment is needed when ketoconazole and VIRACEPT are coadministered. Anti-HIV Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Didanosine: It is recommended that didanosine be administered on an empty stomach; therefore, nelfinavir should be administered (with food) one hour after or more than two hours before didanosine. A dose adjustment is not needed when zidovudine is administered with VIRACEPT. Little or no change in the pharmacokinetics of either drug was observed when VIRACEPT was coadministered with lamivudine or stavudine. Antimycobacterial Agents Rifabutin: Coadministration of rifabutin and VIRACEPT resulted in a 32% decrease in nelfinavir plasma AUC and a 207% increase in rifabutin plasma A.C. It is recommended that the dose of rifabutin be reduced to one-half the usual dose when administered with VIRACEPT. Rifampin: Coadministration of rifampin and VIRACEPT resulted in an 82% decrease in nelfinavir plasma A.C. VIRACEPT and rifampin should not be coadministered. Oral Contraceptives Ethinyl Estradiol and Norethindrone: Coadministration of VIRACEPT with OVCON-35 resulted in a 47% decrease in ethinyl estradiol and an 18% decrease in norethindrone plasma concentrations. Alternate or additional contraceptive measures should be used during therapy with VIRACEPT