DRUG INTERACTIONS Several drug interaction studies have been completed with both INVIRASE and FORTOVASE. Observations from drug interaction studies with FORTOVASE may not be predictive for INVIRASE. Because ritonavir is coadministered, prescribers should also refer to the prescribing information for ritonavir regarding drug interactions associated with this agent. The metabolism of saquinavir is mediated by cytochrome P450, with the specific isoenzyme CYP3A4 responsible for 90% of the hepatic metabolism. Additionally, saquinavir is a substrate for P-Glycoprotein (Pgp). Therefore, drugs that affect CYP3A4 and/or Pgp, may modify the pharmacokinetics of saquinavir. Similarly, saquinavir might also modify the pharmacokinetics of other drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4 or Pgp. Drugs that are contraindicated specifically due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse events are listed CONTRAINDICATIONS. Additional drugs that are not recommended for coadministration with INVIRASE and ritonavir are included below. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction studies or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of efficacy. With some agents, the metabolism may be induced, resulting in decreased concentrations. Drugs That Should Not Be Coadministered With INVIRASE/Ritonavir Drug Class: Drug Name Clinical Comment Antiarrhythmics: Amiodarone, bepridil, flecainide, propafenone, quinidine CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions. Antihistamines: astemizole*, terfenadine* CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. Ergot Derivatives: Dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, ergotamine, methylergonovine CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and life-threatening reactions such as acute ergot toxicity characterized by peripheral vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues. Antimycobacterial Agents: rifampin CONTRAINDICATED since the coadministration of this product with saquinavir in an antiretroviral regimen reduces the plasma concentrations of saquinavir. Garlic Capsules Garlic capsules should not be used while taking saquinavir (FORTOVASE) as the sole protease inhibitor due to the risk of decreased saquinavir plasma concentrations. No data are available for the coadministration of INVIRASE/ritonavir or FORTOVASE/ritonavir and garlic capsules. GI Motility Agent: cisapride* CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as cardiac arrhythmias. Herbal Products: St. John s wort (hypericum perforatum) WARNING coadministration may lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to INVIRASE or to the class of protease inhibitors. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: lovastatin, simvastatin WARNING potential for serious reactions such as risk of myopathy including rhabdomyolysis. Sedatives/Hypnotics: triazolam, midazolam CONTRAINDICATED due to potential for serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as prolonged or increased sedation or respiratory depression. * No longer marketed in the US. Drugs That Are Mainly Metabolized by CYP3A4 Although specific studies have not been performed, coadministration with drugs that are mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 (eg, calcium channel blockers, dapsone, disopyramide, quinine, amiodarone, quinidine, warfarin, tacrolimus, cyclosporine, ergot derivatives, pimozide, carbamazepine, fentanyl, alfentanyl, alprazolam, and triazolam) may have elevated plasma concentrations when coadministered with saquinavir; therefore, these combinations should be used with caution. Since INVIRASE is coadministered with ritonavir, the ritonavir label should be reviewed for additional drugs that should not be coadministered. Inducers of CYP3A4 Coadministration with compounds that are potent inducers of CYP3A4 (eg, phenobarbital, phenytoin, dexamethasone, carbamazepine) may result in decreased plasma levels of saquinavir.